I think we're in a pretty good place with our boiler plate setup right now.
You know we've got certainly some tech showing up on the screen.
I don't have any error message.
Error messages nothing like that.
The one thing that we do so I do is bring over our default components.
So those you know reusable components that we've been taking from section to section now we'll do that
in just a minute.
Right now let's focus a little bit more on our first challenge which is the little log in form.
So we're going to do a little bit of time chella for a minute and think back to the loggin forum that
we had created in that previous section.
We made it.
We had four separate pieces of state inside that log in form.
Right we had the email password floating boolean in the air message as well.
So we definitely know that we're going to need to show a log in form to the user so that they can sign
into our application.
The real question the real challenge here is deciding whether or not we have to modify this thing to
work in a redux world.
That's the big question.
Do we need to modify this thing to work with redux.
So I want to just give you a very straightforward very simple answer to that one that maybe is a little
bit surprising I guess for me when you say no we don't have to.
We don't we don't react can work with our redux.
And we have absolutely seen that in the first two hours that we built in this course right.
Like we made a log in form.
It worked.
We didn't need redux to do it.
We are going to choose that you know maybe it's going to make sense to react to our application a little
bit or read back to the blog and form to work with redox because media is going to make some more challenging
aspects of the blog and form work a little bit more nicely.
Right.
Or maybe as we start to improve increase the complexity of our application we're going to find that
using redux to manage our log in form is actually any kind of a good idea.
So again I'm going to tell you we don't have to do this.
We're going to choose to do it because at some point in time our application is probably going to grow
in complexity especially in the log inside or the authentication side and maybe keeping track of everything
having to do with authentication in the redux store is going to end up working to our advantage.
So as we work throughout this application we're going to see that rather than holding these pieces of
redux or excuse me these pieces of state at the component level it actually starts to make a little
bit more sense to hold them at the redux level or the application state level.
As we start to bring redux into our application and we're going use it very heavily within this app
here we're going to learn that we start to move components like the log and form a way from very intelligent
little pieces of software that know how to manage all these different pieces of state into very simple
components that behave a lot more like templates where they just take some amount of data and spit out
some amount of GSX.
So that's kind of our end goal here.
We want to pull as much logic in keeping track of state as possible away from the component level and
push it to redux instead.
All right.
So let's take a look at some diagrams that can you know to explain or help us understand what the long
form is going to be responsible for and what the redux is going to be responsible for.
So what the long form is doing right now.
Or you know what it was doing previously the log in form would take an email and password it would attempt
to log in and then it would produce a loading an Arab piece of state and then we would figure out hey
OK is the user actually logged in.
Do we need to show them an error message should we be showing them a spinner you know whatever it might
be.
So again the log in form which is generally very intelligent once we start to bring redux onto the scene
however you know this is the this is the thought process we want to have going through our head moving
forward.
We want to minimize the responsibilities of any one of our components.
So the long form rather than being on track of that big old flow of e-mail password loading error all
that stuff we want to make the component as just simple and dumb as possible.
So the log in form all it's going to do is show a form whenever a user typed something like the email
or the password or they tap on a button that log in form will show an action creator.
So we still do need that level of glue in there.
You know we do still need to have the logging forms say like oh I just got tapped on or a user just
pressed a button.
We still have to have that minimum amount of logic.
But as far as deciding what to do about that tap or what to do about that e-mail that was just entered.
That is something that we're going to move off to being managed completely by redux instead.
So only when a user like starts to like tap on something or do something on the screen that's when the
log in form says OK I need to like respond to this in some fashion we can.
You know we can't completely make that log in form like to dumb.
All right.
Just one more diagram really quick.
Let's talk a little bit more about the flow.
You know generally how we want to treat redux moving forward.
So we're going to start at the very top and move down here at the very top.
Re-act is watching for the user to do something like you know tap on an element or to type in some text
when the user does this reactor is going to for that event onto redux.
So again this is the part where it's like OK we do have to have some minimum level of glue code in reacts
like we can't just be passing out GSX and not really thinking anything about it.
We still have to use re-act for at least some level in here.
But we are going to start to delegate everything all the logic around deciding what to do about that
event over to redux instead.
So when the user starts to tap something or type something re-act is going to for the event to react
or seeing the reaction unit for the event on the readout excuse me and the redux is going to decide
whether or not it needs updated state in some fashion after it makes that decision.
It will push that state back over to react.
So whatever you know you little piece of loading state or air state it's going to push that over back
to react and then react is going to say aha some new state from Redux I better re render myself and
we are going to update the content on the screen and wait for the user to do something again.
So our overall goal here especially with the logging Foreman log in form in mind is to shift all of
our record keeping all the side effects all the like actually really doing something over two redux.
And we are only really going to depend on re-act for producing content on the screen and getting some
notification about when the user does something because that's going to this is how these two pieces
fit together and how we're going to treat them moving forward.
Re-act is all about just showing something on the screen and watching for user events whereas redox
is all about actually keeping track of the state of our application and deciding how to interpret or
handle these events that are coming into our application.
OK so with this kind of paradigm shift in mind let's continue onto the next section and start wiring
up our log and form